Connectivity Versus Entropy 
Yaser S. Abu-Mostafa 
1 

Stochastic Learning Networks and their Electronic Implementation 
Joshua Alspector, Robert B. Allen, Victor Hu, and Srinagesh Satyanarayana 
9 

Learning on a General Network 
Amir F. Atiya 
22 

An Artificial Neural Network for Spatio-Temporal Bipolar Patterns: Application to Phoneme Classification 
Les E. Atlas, Toshiteru Homma, and Robert J. Marks II 
31 

On Properties of Networks of Neuron-Like Elements 
Pierre Baldi and Santosh S. Venkatesh 
41 

Supervised Learning of Probability Distributions by Neural Networks 
Eric B. Baum and Frank Wilczek 
52 

Centric Models of the Orientation Map in Primary Visual Cortex 
William Baxter and Bruce Dow 
62 

Analysis and Comparison of Different Learning Algorithms for Pattern Association Problems 
J. Bernasconi 
72 

Simulations Suggest Information Processing Roles for the Diverse Currents in Hippocampal Neurons 
Lyle J. Borg-Graham 
82 

Optimal Neural Spike Classification 
James M. Bower and Amir F. Atiya 
95 

Neural Networks for Template Matching: Application to Real-Time Classification of the Action Potentials of Real Neurons 
James M. Bower, Yiu-fai Wong, and Jashojiban Banik 
103 

A Computer Simulation of Olfactory Cortex with Functional Implications for Storage and Retrieval of Olfactory Information 
James M. Bower and Matthew A. Wilson 
114 

Neural Network Implementation Approaches for the Connection Machine 
Nathan H. Brown, Jr. 
127 

On the Power of Neural Networks for Solving Hard Problems 
Jehoshua Bruck and Joseph W. Goodman 
137 

Speech Recognition Experiments with Perceptrons 
David J. Burr 
144 

Presynaptic Neural Information Processing 
L. Richard Carley 
154 

Mathematical Analysis of Learning Behavior of Neuronal Models 
John Y. Cheung and Massoud Omidvar 
164 

A Neural Network Classifier Based on Coding Theory 
Tzi-Dar Chiueh and Rodney Goodman 
174 

The Capacity of the Kanerva Associative Memory is Exponential 
P. A. Chou 
184 

Phase Transitions in Neural Networks 
Joshua Chover 
192 

New Hardware for Massive Neural Networks 
D. D. Coon and A. G. U. Perera 
201 

High Density Associative Memories 
Amir Dembo and Ofer Zeitouni 
211 

Network Generality, Training Required, and Precision Required 
John S. Denker and Ben S. Wittner 
219 

'Ensemble' Boltzmann Units have Collective Computational Properties like those of Hopfield and Tank Neurons 
Mark Derthick and Joe Tebelskis 
223 

High Order Neural Networks for Efficient Associative Memory Design 
G. Dreyfus, I. Guyon, J.P. Nadal, and L. Personnaz 
233 

The Sigmoid Nonlinearity in Prepyriform Cortex 
Frank H. Eeckman 
242 

Hierarchical Learning Control--An Approach with Neuron-Like Associative Memories 
E. Ersu and H. Tolle 
249 

On Tropistic Processing and Its Applications 
Manuel F. Fernandez 
262 

Correlational Strength and Computational Algebra of Synaptic Connections Between Neurons 
Eberhard E. Fetz 
270 

The Hopfield Model with Multi-Level Neurons 
Michael Fleisher 
278 

Cycles: A Simulation Tool for Studying Cyclic Neural Networks 
Michael T. Gately 
290 

Temporal Patterns of Activity in Neural Networks 
Paolo Gaudiano 
297 

Encoding Geometric Invariances in Higher-Order Neural Networks 
C. Lee Giles, R. D. Griffin, and T. Maxwell 
301 

Probabilistic Characterization of Neural Model Computations 
Richard M. Golden 
310 

Partitioning of Sensory Data by a Cortical Network 
Richard Granger, Jos6 Ambros-Ingerson, Howard Henry, and Gary Lynch 
317 

The Connectivity Analysis of Simple Association 
Dan Hammerstrom 
338 

Minkowski-r Back-Propagation: Learning in Connectionist Models with Non-Euclidian Error Signals 
Stephen J. Hanson and David J. Burr 
348 

Learning Representations by Recirculation 
Geoffrey E. Hinton and James L. McClelland 
358 

Schema for Motor Control Utilizing a Network Model of the Cerebellum 
James C. Houk 
367 

Experimental Demonstrations of Optical Neural Computers 
Ken Hsu, David Brady, and Demetri Psaltis 
377 

Neural Net and Traditional Classifiers 
William Y. Huang and Richard P. Lippmann 
387 

An Optimization Network for Matrix Inversion 
Ju-Seog Jang, Soo-Young Lee, and Sang-Yung Shin 
397 

How the Catfish Tracks Its Prey: An Interactive 'Pipelined' Processing System May Direct Foraging via Reticulospinal Neurons 
Jagmeet S. Kanwal 
402 

Capacity for Patterns and Sequences in Kanerva's SDM as Compared to Other Associative Memory Models 
James D. Keeler 
412 

Computing Motion Using Resistive Networks 
Christof Koch, Jin Luo, Carver Mead, and James Hutchinson 
422 

Performance Measures for Associative Memories that Learn and Forget 
Anthony Kuh 
432 

How Neural Nets Work 
Alan Lapedes and Robert Farbet 
442 

Distributed Neural Information Processing in the Vestibulo-Ocular System 
Clifford Lau and Vicente Honrubia 
457 

Spontaneous and Information-Triggered Segments of Series of Human Brain Electric Field Maps 
Dietrich Lehmann, D. Brandeis, A. Horst, H. Ozaki, and I. Pal 
467 

Optimization with Artificial Neural Network Systems: A Mapping Principle and a Comparison to Gradient Based Methods 
Harrison MonFook Leong 
474 

Towards an Organizing Principle for a Layered Perceptual Network 
Ralph Linsker 
485 

Reflexive Associative Memories 
Hendricus G. Loos 
495 

Connecting to the Past 
Bruce MacDonald 
505 

Microelectronic Implementations of Connectionist Neural Networks 
Stuart Mackie, Hans P. Graf, Daniel B. Schwartz, and John S. Denker 
515 

Basins of Attraction for Electronic Neural Networks 
Charles M. Marcus and R. M. Westervelt 
524 

The Performance of Convex Set Projection Based Neural Networks 
Robert J. Marks II, Les E. Atlas, Seho Oh, and James A. Ritcey 
534 

MURPHY: A Robot that Learns by Doing 
Bartlett W. Mel 
544 

Stability Results for Neural Networks 
A. N. Michel, J. A. Farrell, and W. Porod 
554 

Programmable Synaptic Chip for Electronic Neural Networks 
Alexander Moopenn, H. Langenbacher, A. P. Thakoor, and S. K. Khanna 
564 

Bit-Serial Neural Networks 
Alan F. Murray, Anthony V. W. Smith, and Zoe F. Butler 
573 

Phasor Neural Networks 
Andr6 J. Noest 
584 

A Trellis-Structured Neural Network 
Thomas Petsche and Bradley W. Dickinson 
592 

Generalization of Backpropagation to Recurrent and Higher Order Neural Networks 
Fernando J. Pineda 
602 

Constrained Differential Optimization 
John C. Platt and Alan H. Bart 
612 

Learning a Color Algorithm from Examples 
Tomaso A. Poggio and Anya C. Hurlbert 
622 

Static and Dynamic Error Propagation Networks with Application to Speech Coding 
A. J. Robinson and F. Fallside 
632 

Learning by State Recurrence Detection 
Bruce E. Rosen, James M. Goodwin, and Jacques J. Vidal 
642 

Scaling Properties of Coarse-Coded Symbol Memories 
Ronald Rosenfeld and David S. Touretzky 
652 

An Adaptive and Heterodyne Filtering Procedure for the Imaging of Moving Objects 
F. H. Schuling, H. A. K. Mastebroek, and W. H. Zaagman 
662 

Pattern Class Degeneracy in an Unrestricted Storage Density Memory 
Christopher L. Scofield, Douglas L. Reilly, Charles Elbaum, and Leon N. Cooper 
674 

A Mean Field Theory of Layer IV of Visual Cortex and Its Application to Artificial Neural Networks 
Christopher L. Scofield 
683 

Teaching Artificial Neural Systems to Drive: Manual Training Techniques for Autonomous Systems 
J. F. Shepanski and S. A. Macy 
693 

Discovering Structure from Motion in Monkey, Man and Machine 
Ralph M. Siegel 
701 

Time-Sequential Self-Organization of Hierarchical Neural Networks 
Ronald H. Silverman and Andrew S. Noetzel 
709 

A Computer Simulation of Cerebral Neocortex: Computational Capabilities of Nonlinear Neural Networks 
Alexander Singer and John P. Donoghue 
715 

Analysis of Distributed Representation of Constituent Structure in Connectionist Systems 
Paul Smolensky 
730 

Spatial Organization of Neural Networks: A Probabilistic Modeling Approach 
Andreas Stafylopatis, M. Dikaiakos, and D. Kontoravdis 
740

A Dynamical Approach to Temporal Pattern Processing 
W. Scott Stornetta, Tad Hogg, and Bernardo A. Huberman 
750 

A Novel Net that Learns Sequential Decision Process 
G. Z. Sun, Y. C. Lee, and H. H. Chen 
760 

Self-Organization of Associative Database and Its Applications 
Hisashi Suzuji and Suguru Arimoto 
767 

A Neural-Network Solution to the Concentrator Assignment Problem 
Gene A. Tagliarini and Edward W. Page 
775 

Using Neural Networks to Improve Cochlear Implant Speech Perception 
Manoel F. Tenorio 
783 

A 'Neural' Network that Learns to Play Backgammon 
Gerald Tesauro and T. J. Sejnowski 
794 

Introduction to a System for Implementing Neural Net Connections on SIMD Architectures 
Sherryl Tomboulian 
804 

Neuromorphic Networks Based on Sparse Optical Orthogonal Codes 
Mario P. Vecchi and Jawad A. Salehi 
814 

Synchronization in Neural Nets 
Jacques J. Vidal and John Haggerty 
824 

Invariant Object Recognition Using a Distributed Associative Memory 
Harry Wechsler and George Lee Zimmerman 
830 

Learning in Networks of Nondeterministic Adaptive Logic Elements 
Richard C. Windecker 
840

Strategies for Teaching Layered Networks Classification Tasks 
Ben S. Wittner and John S. Denker 
850 

A Method for the Design of Stable Lateral Inhibition Networks that is Robust in the Presence of Circuit Parasitics 
John L. Wyatt, Jr. and D. L. Standley 
860 
