On the Use of Projection Pursuit Constraints for Training Neural Networks
Nathan lntrator 
 3 

Hidden Markov Model Induction by Bayesian Model Merging 
Andreas Stolcke and Stephen Omobundro 
 11 

Computing with Almost Optimal Size Neural Networks 
Kai-Yeung Siu, Vwani Roychowdhury, and Thomas Kailath 
 19 

Intersecting Regions: The Key to Combinatorial Structure in Hidden Unit Space 
Janet Wiles and Mark Ollila 
 27 

Holographic Recurrent Networks 
Tony A. Plate 
 34 

Improving Performance in Neural Networks Using a Boosting Algorithm
 Harris Drucker, Robert $chapire, and Patrice Simard 
 42 

Efficient Pattern Recognition Using a New Transformation Distance
Patrice $imard, Yann Le Cun, and John Denker 
 50 

Optimal Depth Neural Networks for Multiplication and Related Problems
Kai-Yeung $iu and Vwani Roychowdhury 
 59 

Using Prior Knowledge in a NNDPA to Learn Context-Free Languages
$reerupa Das, C. Lee Giles, and Guo-Zheng Sun 
 65 

A Method for Learning from Hints 
Yaser S. Abu-Mostafa 
 73 

Q-Learning with Hidden-Unit Restarting 
Charles W. Anderson 
 81 

Nets with Unreliable Hidden Nodes Learn Error-Correcting Codes
Stephen Judd and Paul W. Munro 
 89 

Interposing an Ontogenic Model Between Genetic Algorithms and Neural Networks 
Richard K. Belew 
 99 

Combining Neural and Symbolic Learning to Revise Probabilistic Rule Bases 
J. Jeffrey Mahoney and Raymond J. Mooney 
 107 

Learning Sequential Tasks by Incrementally Adding Higher Orders
Mark Ring 
 115 

Kohonen Feature Maps and Growing Cell Structures--a Performance Comparison 
Bernd Fritzke 
 123 

Metamorphosis Networks: An Alternative to Constructive Models
Brian V. Bonnlander and Michael C. Mozer 
 131 

A Boundary Hunting Radial Basis Function Classifier which Allocates Centers Constructively 
Eric I. Chang and Richard P. Lippmann 
 139 

Automatic Capacity Tuning of Very Large VC-Dimension Classifiers
I. Guyon, B. Boser, and V. Vapnik 
 147 

Automatic Learning Rate Maximization in Large Adaptive Machines
Yann LeCun, Patrice Y. Simard, and Barak Pearlmutter: 
 156 

Second Order Derivatives for Network Pruning: Optimal Brain Surgeon
Babak Hassibi and David G. Stork 
 164 

Directional-Unit Boltzmann Machines 
Richard S. Zemel, Christopher K. I. Williams, and Michael C. Mozer 
 172 

Time Warping Invariant Neural Networks 
Guo-Zheng Sun, Hsing-Hen Chen, and Yee-Chun Lee 
 180 

Generalization Abilities of Cascade Network Architecture
E. Littmann and H. Ritter 
 188 

Assessing and Improving Neural Network Predictions by the Bootstrap Algorithm 
Gerhard Paass 
 196 

Discriminability-Based Transfer between Neural Networks
L. Y. Pratt 
 204 

Summed Weight Neuron Perturbation: An O(N) Improvement Over Weight Perturbation 
Barry Flower and Marwan Jabri 
 212 

A Note on Learning Vector Quantization 
Virginia R. de Sa and Dana H. Ballard 
 220 

Extended Regularization Methods for Nonconvergent Model Selections
W. Finnoff, F. Hergert, and H. G. Zimmermann 
 228 

Synchronization and Grammatical Inference in an Oscillating Elman Net
Bill Baird, Todd Troyer, and Frank Eeckman 
 236 

A Fast Stochastic Error-Descent Algorithm for Supervised Learning and Optimization 
Gert Cauwenberghs 
 244 

Global Regularization of Inverse Kinematics for Redundant Manipulators
David DeMers and Kenneth Kreutz-Delgado 
 255 

Memory-based Reinforcement Learning: Efficient Computation with Prioritized Sweeping 
Andrew W. Moore and Christopher G. Atkeson 
 263 

Feudal Reinforcement Learning 
Peter Dayan and Geoffrey E. Hinton 
 271 

Input Reconstruction Reliability Estimation
Dean A. Pomerleau 
 279 

Explanation-based Neural Network Learning for Robot Control
Tom M. Mitchell and Sebastian B. Thrun 
 287 

Reinforcement Learning Applied to Linear Quadratic Regulation
Steven J. Bradtke 
 295 

Neural Network On-Line Learning Control of Spacecraft Smart Structures
Christopher Bowman 
 303 

Integration of Visual and Somatosensory Information for Preshaping Hand in Grasping Movements 
Yoji Uno, Naohiro Fukumura, Ryoji Suzuki, and Mitsuo Kawato 
 311 

On Line Estimation of Optimal Control Sequences: HJB Estimators
James K. Peterson 
 319 

Learning Control Under Extreme Uncertainty 
Vijaykumar Gullapalli 
 327 

A Practice Strategy for Robot Learning Control
Terence D. Sanger 
 335 

Learning Spatio-Temporal Planning from a Dynamic Programming Teacher: Feed-Forward Neurocontrol for Moving Obstacle Avoidance 
Gerald Fahner and Roll Eckmiller 
 342 

Learning Fuzzy Rule-Based Neural Networks for Control 
Charles M. Higgins and Rodney M. Goodman 
 350 

Learning to Categorize Objects Using Temporal Coherence
Suzanna Becker 
 361 

Filter Selection Model for Generating Visual Motion Signals
Steven J. Nowlan and Terrence J. Sejnowski 
 369 

Stimulus Encoding By Multidimensional Receptive Fields in Single Cells and Cell Populations in V1 of Awake Monkey 
Edward Stern, Ad Aertsen, Eilon Vaadia, and Shaul Hochstein 
 377 

The Computation of Stereo Disparity for Transparent and for Opaque Surfaces 
Suthep Madarasmi, Daniel Kersten, and Ting-Chuen Pong 
 385 

Some Solutions to the Missing Feature Problem in Vision
Subutai Ahmad and Volker Tresp 
 393 

Improving Convergence in Hierarchical Matching Networks for Object Recognition 
Joachim Utans and Gene Gindi 
 401 

A Model of Feedback to the Lateral Geniculate Nucleus
Carlos D. Brody 
 409 

Unsmearing Visual Motion: Development of Long-Range Horizontal Intrinsic Connections 
Kevin E. Martin and Jonathan A. Marshall 
 417 

Remote Sensing Image Analysis via a Texture Classification Neural Network 
Hayit K. Greenspan and Rodney Goodman 
 425 

Computation of Heading Direction from Optic Flow in Visual Cortex
Markus Lappe and Josef P. Rauschecker 
 433 

Learning to See Where and What: Training a Net to Make Saccades and Recognize Handwritten Characters 
Gale Martin, Mosfeq Rashid, David Chapman, and James Pittman 
 441 

Weight Space Probability Densities in Stochastic Learning: I. Dynamics and Equilibria 
Todd K. Leen and John E. Moody 
 451 

Diffusion Approximations for the Constant Step Size Backpropogation Algorithm and Resistance to Local Minima 
William Finnoff 
 459 

Self-Organizing Rules for Robust Principal Component Analysis
Lei Xu and Alan Yuille 
 467 

Bayesian Learning via Stochastic Dynamics 
Radford M. Neal 
 475 

Information, Prediction, and Query by Committee 
Yoav Freund, H. Sebastian Seung, Eli Sbamir, and Naftali Tisbby 
 483 

Synaptic Weight Noise During MLP Learning Enhances Fault-Tolerance, Generalization and Learning Trajectory 
Alan F. Murray and Peter J. Edwards 
 491 

Unsupervised Discrimination of Clustered Data via Optimization of Binary Information Gain 
Nicol N. Scbraudolpb and Terrence J. Sejnowski 
 499 

Weight Space Probability Densities in Stochastic Learning: II. Transients and Basin Hopping Times 
Genevieve B. Orr and Todd K. Leen 
 507 

Information Theoretic Analysis of Connection Structure from Spike Trains
Satoru Sbiono, Satosbi Yamada, Micbio Nakasbima, and Kenji Matsumoto 
 515 

Statistical Mechanics of Learning in a Large Committee Machine
Holm Scbwarze and John Hertz 
 523 

Probability Estimation from a Database Using a Gibbs Energy Model
John Miller and Rodney M. Goodman 
 531 

On the Use of Evidence in Neural Networks 
David H. Wolpert 
 539 

Destabilization and Route to Chaos in Neural Networks with Random Connectivity 
Bernard Doyon, Bruno Cessac, Mathias Quoy, and Manuel Samuelides 
 549 

Predicting Complex Behavior in Sparse Asymmetric Networks 
Ali A. Minai and William B. Levy 
 556 

Single-iteration Threshold Hamming Networks 
Isaac Meilijson, Eytan Ruppin, and Moshe Sipper 
 564 

History-dependent Attractor Neural Networks 
Isaac Meilijson and Eytan Ruppin 
 572 

Non-Linear Dimensionality Reduction 
David DeMers and Garrison Cottrell 
 580 

On Learning mu-Perceptron Networks with Binary Weights
Mostera Golea, Mario Marchand, and Thomas R. Hancock 
 591 

Neural Network Model Selection Using Asymptotic Jackknife Estimator and Cross-Validation Method 
Yong Liu 
 599 

Learning Curves, Model Selection and Complexity of Neural Networks
Noboru Murata, Shuji Yoshizawa, and Shun-ichi Amari 
 607 

The Power of Approximating: A Comparison of Activation Functions
Bhaskar Das Gupta and Georg Schnitger 
 615 

Rational Parameterizations of Neural Networks 
Uwe Helmke and Robert C. Williamson 
 623 

Learning Cellular Automaton Dynamics with Neural Networks 
N.H. Wulff and ]. A. Hertz 
 631 

Some Estimates of Necessary Number of Connections and Hidden Units for Feed-Forward Networks 
Adam Kowalczyk 
 639 

Context-Dependent Multiple Distribution Phonetic Modeling with MLPs
Michael Cohen, Horacio Franco, Nelson Morgan, David Rumelhart, and Victor Abrasb 
 649 

Physiologically Based Speech Synthesis 
Makoto Hirayama, Eric Vatikiotis-Bateson, Kiyosbi Honda, Yasubaru Koike, and Misuo Kawato 
 658 

Analog Cochlear Model for Multiresolution Speech Analysis
Weimin Liu, Andreas G. Andreou, and Moise H. Goldstein Jr. 
 666 

A Hybrid Linear/Nonlinear Approach to Channel Equilization Problems
Wei-Tsih Lee and John Pearson 
 674 

Modeling Consistency in a Speaker Independent Continuous Speech Recognition System 
Yochai Konig, Nelson Morgan, Chuck Wooters, Victor Abrash, Michael Cohen, and Horacio Franco 
 682 

Transient Signal Detection with Neural Networks: The Search for the Desired Signal 
Jose C. Principe and Abir Zahalka 
 688 

Performance Through Consistency: MS-TDNN's for Large Vocabulary Continuous Speech Recognition 
Joe Tebelskis and Alex Waibel 
 696 

A Hybrid Neural Net System for State-of-the-Art Continuous Speech Recognition 
George Zavaliagkos, Y. Zhao, R. Schwartz, and J. Makhoul 
 704 

Connected Letter Recognition with a Multi-State Time Delay Neural Network 
Hermann Hild and Alex Waibel 
 712 

Recognition-Based Segmentation of On-line Hand-Printed Words
M. Schenkel, H. Weissman, I. Guyon, C. Nohl, and D. Henderson 
 723 

Planar Hidden Markov Modeling: from Speech to Optical Character Recognition 
Esther Levin and Roberto Pieraccini 
 731 

Forecasting Demand for Electric Power 
Jen-Lun Yuan and Terrence L. Fine 
 739 

Hidden Markov Models in Molecular Biology: New Algorithms and Applications 
Pierre Baldi, Yves Chauvin, Tim Hunkapiller, and Marcella A. McClure 
 747 

A Neural Network that Learns to Interpret Myocardial Planar Thallium Scintigrams 
Charles Rosenberg, Jacob Erel, and Henri Atlan 
 755 

An Analog VLSI Chip for Radial Basis Functions 
Janeen Anderson, John C. Platt, and David B. Kirk 
 765 

Generic Analog Neural Computation: The Epsilon Chip 
Stephen Churcher, Donald J. Baxter, Alister Hamilton, Alan F. Murray, and H. Martin Reekie 
 773 

Visual Motion Computation in Analog VLSI using Pulses 
Rahul Sarpeshkar, Wyeth Bait, and Christof Koch 
 781 

Analog VLSI Implementation of Gradient Descent 
David B. Kirk, Douglas Kerns, Kurt Fleischer, and Alan H. Bart 
 789 

An Object-Oriented Framework for the Simulation of Neural Networks
A. Linden, Th. Sudbrak, Ch. Tietz, and E Weber 
 797 

Attractor Neural Networks with Local Inhibition: from Statistical Physics to a Digital Programmable Integrated Circuit 
E. Pasero and R. Zecchina 
 805 

Hybrid Circuits of Interacting Computer Model and Biological Neurons 
Sylvie Renaud-LeMasson, Gwendal LeMasson, Eve Marder, and L. E Abbot 
 813 

Silicon Auditory Processors as Computer Peripherals
John Lazzaro, John Wawrzynek, M. Mahowald, Massimo Sivilotti, and Dave Gillespie 
 820 

Object-Based Analog VLSI Vision Circuits 
Christof Koch, Bimal Matbur, Shih-Chii Liu, John G. Harris, fin Luo, and Massimo Sivilotti 
 828 

A Parallel Gradient Descent Method for Learning in Analog VLSI Neural Networks 
J. Alspector, R. Meir, B. Yuhas, A. Jayakumar, and D. Lippe 
 836 

Harmonic Grammars for Formal Languages 
Paul Smolensky 
 847 

Analogy--Watershed or Waterloo? Structural Alignment and the Development of Connectionist Models of Cognition 
Dedre Gentner and Arthur B. Markman 
 855 

A Connectionist Symbol Manipulator that Discovers the Structure of Context-Free Languages 
Michael C. Mozer and Sreerupa Das 
 863 

Network Structuring and Training Using Rule-based Knowledge 
Volker Tresp, Jurgen Hollatz, and Subutai Ahmad 
 871 

A Dynamical Model of Priming and Repetition Blindness 
Daphne Bavelier and Michael I. Jordan 
 879 

A Knowledge-Based Model of Geometry Learning 
Geoffrey Towell and Richard Lehrer 
 887 

Word Space 
Hinrich Schutze 
 895 

Perceiving Complex Visual Scenes: An Oscillator Neural Network Model that Integrates Selective Attention, Perceptual Organisation, and Invariant Recognition 
Rainer Goebel 
 903 

Mapping Between Neural and Physical Activities of the Lobster Gastric Mill 
Kenji Doya, Mary E. T. Boyle, and Allen I. Selverston 
 913 

A Neural Model of Descending Gain Control in the Electrosensory System
Mark E. Nelson 
921 

Using Hippocampal 'Place Cells' for Navigation, Exploiting Phase Coding
Neil Burgess, John O'Keefe, and Michael Recce 
 929 

Adaptive Stimulus Representations: A Computational Theory of Hippocampal-Region Function 
Mark A. Gluck and Catherine E. Myers 
 937 

Statistical Modeling of Cell-Assemblies Activities in Associative Cortex of Behaving Monkeys 
Itay Gat and Naftali Tishby 
 945 

Deriving Receptive Fields Using an Optimal Encoding Criterion 
Ralph Linsker 
 953 

Biologically Plausible Local Learning Rules for the Adaptation of the Vestibulo-Ocular Reflex 
Olivier Coenen, Terrence J. Sejnowski, and Stephen G. Lisberger 
 961 

Using Aperiodic Reinforcement for Directed Self-Organization During Development 
P. R. Montague, P. Dayan, $. J. Nowlan, and T. J. $ejnowski 
 969 

How Oscillatory Neuronal Responses Reflect Bistability and Switching of the Hidden Assembly Dynamics 
K. Pawelzik, H.-U. Bauer, J. Deppisch, and T. Geisel 
 977 

Topography and Ocular Dominance with Positive Correlations
Geoffrey J. Goodhill 
 985 

Statistical and Dynamical Interpretation of ISIH Data from Periodically Stimulated Sensory Neurons 
Frank Moss and Andre Longtin 
 993 

Spiral Waves in Integrate-and-Fire Neural Networks
John G. Milton, Po Hsiang Chu, and Jack D. Cowan 
 1001 

Parameterising Feature Sensitive Cell Formation in Linsker Networks in the Auditory System 
Lance C. Walton and David L. Bisset 
 1007 

A Recurrent Neural Network for Generation of Occular Saccades
Lina E. Massone 
 1014 

A Formal Model of the Insect Olfactory Macroglomerulus: Simulations and Analytic Results 
Christiane Linster, David Marsan, Claudine Masson, Michel Kerszberg, Gerard Dreyfus, and Leon Personnaz 
 1022 

An Information-Theoretic Approach to Deciphering the Hippocampal Code 
William E. Skaggs, Bruce L. McNaughton, and Katalin M. Gothard 
 1030 

