Synchronized Auditory and Cognitive 40 Hz Attentional Streams, and the Impact of Rhythmic Expectation on Auditory Scene Analysis, 
Bill Baird
 3 

On Parallel versus Serial Processing: A Computational Study of Visual Search,
 Eyal Cohen and Eytan Ruppin 
 10 

Task and Spatial Frequency Effects on Face Specialization,
Matthew N. Dailey and Garrison W. Cottrell 
 17 

Neural Basis of Object-Centered Representations,
Sophie Deneve and Alexandre Pouget 
 24 

A Neural Network Model of Naive Preference and Filial Imprinting in the Domestic Chick,
 Lucy E. Hadden 
 31 

Adaptation in Speech Motor Control,
 John F. Houde and Michael I. Jordan 
 38 

Learning Human-like Knowledge by Singular Value Decomposition.' A Progress Report,
 Thomas K. Landauer, Darrell Laham and Peter Foltz 
 45 

Multi-modular Associative Memory,
 Nit Levy, David Horn and Eytan Ruppin 
52 

Serial Order in Reading Aloud.' Connectionist Models and Neighborhood Structure, 
Jeanne C. Milostan and Garrison W. Cottrell 
 59 

A Superadditive-Impairment Theory of Optic Aphasia,
 Michael C. Mozer, Mark Sitton and Martha Farah 
 66 

A Hippocampal Model of Recognition Memory,
 Randall C. O'Reilly, Kenneth A. Norman and James L. McClelland
 73 

Correlates of Attention in a Model of Dynamic Visual Recognition,
Rajesh P. N. Rao 
 80 

Recurrent Neural Networks Can Learn to Implement Symbol-Sensitive Counting,
 Paul Rodriguez and Janet Wiles 
 87 

Comparison of Human and Machine Word Recognition,
Markus Schenkel, Cyril Latimer and Marwan Jabri 
 94 

Coding of Naturalistic Stimuli by Auditory Midbrain Neurons,
 Hagai Attias and Christoph E. Schreiner 
 103 

Refractoriness and Neural Precision,
 Michael J. Berry and Markus Meister 
110 

Statistical Models of Conditioning, 
Peter Dayan and Theresa Long
 117 

Characterizing Neurons in the Primary Auditory Cortex of the Awake Primate Using Reverse Correlation,
 R. Christopher deChamas and Michael M. Merzenich 
124 

Using Helmholtz Machines to Analyze Multi-channel Neuronal Recordings, 
Virginia R. de Sa, R. Christopher deCharms and Michael M. Merzenich
131 

Instabilities in Eye Movement Control: A Model of Periodic Alternating Nystagmus,
 Ernst R. Dow and Thomas J. Anastasio 
138 
 
Hippocampal Model of Rat Spatial Abilities Using Temporal Difference Learning,
 David J. Foster, Richard G. M. Morris and Peter Dayan 
145 

Gradients for Retinotectal Mapping,
 Geoffrey J. Goodhill 
 152 

A Mathematical Model of Axon Guidance by Diffusible Factors,
Geoffrey J. Goodhill 
159 

Computing with Action Potentials (Invited Talk),
John J. Hopfield, Carlos D. Brody and Sam Roweis 
166 

A Model of Early Visual Processing,
Laurent Itti, Jochen Braun, Dale K. Lee and Christof Koch 
173 

Perturbative M-Sequences for Auditory Systems Identification,
Mark Kvale and Christoph E. Schreiner 
180 

Effects of Spike Timing Underlying Binocular Integration and Rivalry in a Neural Model of Early Visual Cortex,
 Erik D. Lumer 
 187 

Dynamic Stochastic Synapses as Computational Units,
Wolfgang Maass and Anthony M. Zador 
194 

Synaptic Transmission: An Information-Theoretic Perspective,
Amit Manwani and Christof Koch 
 201 

Toward a Single-Cell Account for Binocular Disparity Tuning: An Energy Model May Be Hiding in Your Dendrites± 
Bartlett W. Mel, Daniel L. Ruderman and Kevin A. Archie 
 208 

Just One View: Invariances in Inferotemporal Cell Tuning,
 Maximilian Riesenhuber and Tomaso Poggio 
 215 

On the Separation of Signals from Neighboring Cells in Tetrode Recordings± 
Maneesh Sahani, John S. Pezaris and Richard A. Andersen 
 222 

Independent Component Analysis for Identification of Artifacts in Magnetoencephalographic Recordings,
 Ricardo Vigario, Veikko Jousmaki, Matti Hamalainen, Riitta Hari and Erkki Oja 
229 

Modeling Complex Cells in an Awake Macaque during Natural Image Viewing, 
William E. Vinje and Jack L. Gallant 
 236 

The Canonical Distortion Measure in Feature Space and 1-NN Classification,
Jonathan Baxter and Peter Bartlett 
245 

Multiple Threshold Neural Logic,
 Vasken Bohossian and Jehoshua Bruck 
252 

Generalization in Decision Trees and DNF: Does Size Matter? 
Mostefa Golea, Peter Bartlett, Wee Sun Lee and Llew Mason 
259 

Selecting Weighting Factors in Logarithmic Opinion Pools,
 Tom Heskes 
266 

New Approximations of Differential Entropy for Independent Component Analysis and Projection Pursuit,
 Aapo Hyv'firinen 
273 

Boltzmann Machine Learning Using Mean Field Theory and Linear Response Correction,
 Hilbert J. Kappen and F. B. Rodrfguez 
280 

Relative Loss Bounds for Multidimensional Regression Problems,
Jyrki Kivinen and Manfred K. Warmuth 
287 

Asymptotic Theory for Regularization: One-Dimensional Linear Case,
Petri Koistinen 
294 

Two Approaches to Optimal Annealing,
Todd K. Leen, Bernhard Schottky and David Saad 
301 

Structural Risk Minimization for Nonparametric Time Series Prediction, 
Ron Meir 
308 

Analytical Study of the Interplay between Architecture and Predictability,
Avner Priel, Ido Kanter and David A. Kessler 
315 

Globally Optimal On-line Learning Rules,
 Magnus Rattray and David Saad 
322 

Minimax and Hamiltonian Dynamics of Excitatory-Inhibitory Networks,
H. Sebastian Seung, Tom J. Richardson, Jeffrey C. Lagarias and John J. Hopfield 
329 

Data-Dependent Structural Risk Minimization for Perceptron Decision Trees, 
John Shawe-Taylor and Nello Cristianini 
336 

From Regularization Operators to Support Vector Kernels,
Alex J. Smola and Bernhard Schopkopf 
343 

The Rectified Gaussian Distribution,
Nicholas D. Socci, Daniel D. Lee and H. Sebastian Seung 
350 

On-line Learning from Finite Training Sets in Nonlinear Networks, 
Peter Sollich and David Barber 
357 

Competitive On-line Linear Regression,
 Volodya Vovk 
364 

On the Infeasibility of Training Neural Networks with Small Squared Errors,
 Van H. Vu 
371 

The Storage Capacity of a Fully-Connected Committee Machine,
Yuansheng Xiong, Chulan Kwon and Jong-Hoon Oh 
378   

The Efficiency and the Robustness of Natural Gradient Descent Learning Rule,
 Howard H. Yang and Shun-ichi Amari 
 385 

Ensemble Learning for Multi-Layer Networks,
 David Barber and Christopher M. Bishop 
 395 

Radial Basis Functions: A Bayesian Treatment,
 David Barber and Bernhard Schottky 
 402 

Shared Context Probabilistic Transducers,
 Yoshua Bengio, Samy Bengio, Jean-Franqois Isabelle and Yoram Singer
 409 

Approximating Posterior Distributions in Belief Networks Using Mixtures,
 Christopher M. Bishop, Nell Lawrence, Tommi Jaakkola and Michael I. Jordan 
416 

Receptive Field Formation in Natural Scene Environments: Comparison of  Single Cell Learning Rules, 
Brian S. Blais, Nathan Intrator, Harel Shouval and Leon N. Cooper
 423 

An Annealed Self-Organizing Map for Source Channel Coding,
Matthias Burger, Thore Graepel and Klaus Obermayer 
 430 

Incorporating Test Inputs into Learning,
Zehra Cataltepe and Malik Magdon-Ismail 
 437 

On Efficient Heuristic Ranking of Hypotheses,
Steve Chien, Andre Stechert and Darren Mutz 
444 

Learning to Order Things,
William W. Cohen, Robert E. Schapire and Yoram Singer 
 451 

Regularisation in Sequential Learning Algorithms,
 Joao F. G. de Freitas, Mahesan Niranjan and Andrew H. Gee 
 458 

Agnostic Classification of Markovian Sequences, 
Ran EI-Yaniv, Shai Fine and Naftali Tlshby 
 465 

Ensemble and Modular Approaches for Face Detection: A Comparison,
Raphael Feraud and Olivier Bernier 
 472 

A Revolution: Belief Propagation in Graphs with Cycles,
Brendan J. Frey and David J. C. MacKay 
 479 

Hierarchical Non-linear Factor Analysis and Topographic Maps,
Zoubin Ghahramani and Geoffrey E. Hinton 
 486 

Regression with Input-dependent Noise: A Gaussian Process Treatment,
Paul W. Goldberg, Christopher K. I. Williams and Christopher M. Bishop
 493 

Linear Concepts and Hidden Variables: An Empirical Study,
Adam J. Grove and Dan Roth 
 500 

Classification by Pairwise Coupling,
 Trevor Hastie and Robert Tibshirani 
 507 

Unsupervised On-line Learning of Decision Trees for Hierarchical Data Analysis,
 Marcus Held and Joachim M. Buhmann 
 514 

Nonlinear Markov Networks for Continuous Variables, 
Reimar Holmann and Volker Tresp 
 521 

Active Data Clustering,
 Thomas Hofmann and Joachim M. Buhmann 
 528 

Function Approximation with the Sweeping Hinge Algorithm,
Don R. Hush, Fernando Lozano and Bill Home 
 535 

The Error Coding and Substitution PaCTs,
 Gareth James and Trevor Hastie 
 542 

S-Map: A Network with a Simple Self-Organization Algorithm for Generarive Topographic Mappings,
 Kimmo Kiviluoto and Erkki Oja 
 549 

Learning Nonlinear Overcomplete Representations for Efficient Coding,
Michael S. Lewicki and Terrence J. Sejnowski 
 556 

Factorizing Multivariate Function Classes,
 Juan K. Lin 
 563 

A Framework for Multiple-Instance Learning,
Oded Maron and Tonaris Lozano-P6rez 
 570 

An Application of Reversible-Jump MCMC to Multivariate Spherical Gaussian Mixtures,
 Alan D. Marts 
 577 

Estimating Dependency Structure as a Hidden Variable,
Marina Meila and Michael I. Jordan 
 584 

Combining Classifiers Using Correspondence Analysis,
 Christopher J. Metz 
591 

Learning Path Distributions Using Nonequilibrium Diffusion Networks, 
Paul Mineiro, Javier Movellan and Ruth J. %rfiliams 
 598 

Learning Generarive Models with the Up-Propagation Algorithm, 
Jong-Hoon Oh and H. Sebastian Seung 
 605 

An Incremental Nearest Neighbor Algorithm with Queries,
 Joel Ratsaby 
 612 

RCC Cannot Compute Certain FSA, Even with Arbitrary Transfer Functions, 
Mark Ring 
 619 

EM Algorithms for PCA and SPCA,
 Sam Roweis 
 626 

Local Dimensionality Reduction,
Stefan Schaal, Sethu Xqjayakumar and Christopher G. Atkeson 
 633 

Prior Knowledge in Support Vector Kernels,
Bernhard Sch61kopf, Patrice Simard, Alex J. Smola and Vladimir Vapnik
 640 

Training Methods for Adaptive Boosting of Neural Networks,
Holger Schwenk and Yoshua Bengio 
 647 

Learning Continuous Attractors in Recurrent Networks,
 H. Sebastian Seung 
654 

Monotonic Networks, 
Joseph Sill 
 661 

Stacked Density Estimation,
 Padhraic Smyth and David Wolpert 
 668 

Bidirectional Retrieval from Associative Memory, 
Friedrich T. Sommer and G'anther Palm 
 675 

Mapping a Manifold of Perceptual Observations,
 Joshua B. Tenenbaum 
 682 

Graph Matching with Hierarchical Discrete Relaxation,
Richard C. W'fison and Edwin R. Hancock 
 689 

Multiplicative Updating Rule for Blind Separation Derived from the Method of Scoring,
 Howard H. Yang 
 696 

A 1,000-Neuron System with One Million 7-bit Physical Interconnections, 
Yuzo Hirai 
 705 

Silicon Retina with Adaptive Filtering Properties 
Shih-Chii Liu
712 

Analog VLSI Model of lntersegmental Coordination with Nearest-Neighbor Coupling,
 Girish N. Patel, Jeremy H. Holleman and Stephen P. DeWeerth 
 719 

An Analog VLSI Neural Network for Phase-based Machine Vision,
 Bertram E. Shi and Kwok Fai Hui 
 726 

Analysis of Drifting Dynamics with Neural Network Hidden Markov Models,
 Jens Kohlmorgen, Klaus-Robert Mtiller and Klaus Pawelzik 
 735 

Bayesian Robustification for Audio Visual Fusion,
 Javier MoveRan and Paul Mineiro 
 742 

Modeling Acoustic Correlations by Factor Analysis,
 Lawrence Saul and Mazin Rahim 
 749 

Blind Separation of Radio Signals in Fading Channels,
 Karl Torkkola 
 756 

Hybrid NN/I-IMM-Based Speech Recognition with a Discriminant Neural Feature Extraction,
 Daniel Willett and Gerhard Rigoll 
 763 

A Non-Parametric Multi-Scale Statistical Model for Natural Images,
 Jeremy S. De Bonet and Paul A. Viola 
 773 

Recovering Perspective Pose with a Dual Step EM Algorithm,
 Andrew D. J. Cross and Edwin R. Hancock 
 780 

Bayesian Model of Surface Perception,
William T Freeman and Paul A. Viola 
787 

Features as Sufficient Statistics, 
Davi Geiger, Archismart Rudra and Laurarice T. Maloney 
 794 

Detection of First and Second Order Motion, 
Alexander Gmnewald and Heiko Neumann 
 801 

A Simple and Fast Neural Network Approach to Stereovision,
 Rolf D. Henkel 
808 

Inferring Sparse, Overcomplete Image Codes Using an Efficient Coding Framework,
Michael S. Lewicki and Bruno A. Olshausen 
 815 

Visual Navigation in a Robot Using Zig-Zag Behavior,
 M. Anthony Lewis 
 822 

2D Observers for Human 3D Object Recognition? 
Zili Liu and Daniel Kersten 
829 

Self-similarity Properties of Natural Images,
Antonio Turiel, Germfin Mato, N6stor Parga and Jean-Pierre Nadal
 836 

Multiresolution Tangent Distance for Affine-invariant Classification,
Nuno Vasconcelos and Andrew Lippman 
 843 

Phase Transitions and the Perceptual Organization of Video Sequences,
Yair Weiss 
 850 

Using Expectation to Guide Processing: A Study of Three Real-World Applications,
 Shumeet Baluja 
 859 

Structure Driven Image Database Retrieval,
Jeremy S. De Bonet and Paul A. Viola 
 866 

A General Purpose Image Processing Chip: Orientation Detection,
Ralph Etienne-Cummings and Donghui Cai 
 873 

An Analog VLSI Model of the Fly Elementary Motion Detector,
Reid R. Harrison and Christof Koch 
 880 

MELONET I: Neural Nets for Inventing Baroque-Style Chorale Variations,
Dominik H6rnel 
 887 

Extended ICA Removes Artifacts from Electroencephalographic Recordings,
Tzyy-Ping Jung, Colin Humphties, Te-Won Lee, Scott Makeig, Manfin J. McKeown, Vicente Iragui and Terrence J. Sejnowski 
 894 

A Generic Approach for Identification of Event Related Brain Potentials via a Competitive Neural Network Structure, 
Daniel H. Lange, Hava T. Siegelmann, Hillel Pratt and Gideon F. Inbar
 901 

A Neural Network Based Head Tracking System,
 Daniel D. Lee and H. Sebastian Seung 
 908 

Wavelet Models for Video Time-Series,
 Sheng Ma and Chuanyi Ji 
 915 

Reinforcement Learning for Call Admission Control and Routing in Integrated Service Networks, 
Peter Marbach, Oliver Mihatsch, Miriam Schulte and John N. Tsitsildis
 922 

Learning to Schedule Straight-Line Code,
 Eliot Moss, Paul Utgoff, John Cavazos, Doina Precup, Darko Stefanovid, Carla Brodley and David Scheeff . 
929 

Enhancing Q-Learning for Optimal Asset Allocation, 
Ralph Neuneier
 936 

Intrusion Detection with Neural Networks,
Jake Ryan, Meng-Jang Lin and Risto M'fikkulainen 
 943 

Incorporating Contextual Information in White Blood Cell Identification,
 Xubo Song, Yaser Abu-Mostafa, Joseph Sill and Harvey Kasdan 
 950 

Bach in a Box--Real-Time Harmony,
Randall R. Spangler, Rodney M. Goodman and Jim Hawkins 
 957 

Experiences with Bayesian Learning in a Real World Application,
Peter Sykacek, Georg Dorffner, Peter Rappelsberger and Josef Zeitlhofer 
 964 

A Solution for Missing Data in Recurrent Neural Networks with an Application to Blood Glucose Prediction,
 Volker Tresp and Thomas Briegel 
 971 

Use of a Multi-Layer Perceptron to Predict Malignancy in Ovarian Tumors,
Herman Verrelst, Yves Moreau, Joos Vandewalle and Dirk Ttmmemmn 
 978 

Modelling Seasonality and Trends in Daily Rainfall Data,
 Peter M. Williams
985 

The Observer-Observation Dilemma in Neuro-Forecasting, 
Hans Georg Zimmermann and Ralph Netmeier 
 992 

Generalized Prioritized Sweeping,
 David Andre, Nir Friedman and Ronald Parr
1001 

Nonparametric Model-Based Reinforcement Learning, 
Christopher G. Atkeson 
1008 

An Improved Policy Iteration Algorithm for Partially Observable MDPS, 
Eric A. Hansen 
 1015 

Automated Aircraft Recovery via Reinforcement Learning: Initial Experiments,
 Jeffrey F. Monaco, David G. Ward and Andrew G. Barto 
 1022 

Reinforcement Learning for Continuous Stochastic Control Problems,
 R6nai Munos and Paul Bourgine 
 1029 

Adaptive Choice of Grid and Time in Reinforcement Learning,
 Stephan Pareigis 
1036 

Reinforcement Learning with Hierarchies of Machines, 
Ronald Parr and Smart Russell 
 1043 

Multi-time Models for Temporally Abstract Planning,
Doina Precup and Richard S. Sutton 
 1050 

How to Dynamically Merge Markov Decision Processes,
Satinder Singh and David Cohn 
 1057 

The Asymptotic Convergence-Rate of Q-learning,
 Csaba Szepesvfiri 
 1064 

Hybrid Reinforcement Learning and Its Application to Biped Robot Control,
Satoshi Yamada, Akira Watanabe and Michio Nakashima 
 1071 

