Complexity Issues in Neural 
Computation and Learning 
V. P. Roychowdhury 
School of Electrical Engineering 
Purdue University 
West Lafayette, IN 47907 
Email: vwani@ecn.purdue.edu 
K.-Y. Siu 
Dept. of Electrical & Comp. Engr. 
University of California at Irvine 
Irvine, CA 92717 
Email: siu@balboa.eng.uci.edu 
The general goal of this workshop was to bring together researchers working toward 
developing a theoretical framework for the analysis and design of neural networks. 
The technical focus of the workshop was to address recent developments in tinder- 
standing the capabilities and limitations of various models for neural computation 
and learning. The primary topics addressed the following three areas: 1) Com- 
putational complexity issues in neural networks, 2) Complexity issues in learning, 
and 3) Convergence and numerical properties of learning algorithms. Other top- 
ics included experimental/simulation reslilts on neural networks, which seemed to 
pose some open problems in the areas of learning and generalization properties of 
feedforward networks. 
The presentations and discussions at tile workshop highlighted the interdisciplinary 
nature of research in neural networks. For example, several of the presentations 
discussed recent contributions which have applied complexity-theoretic techniques 
to characterize the computing power of neural networks, to design efficient neural 
networks, and to compare the computational capabilities of neural networks with 
that of conventional models for computation. Such studies, in turn, have generated 
considerable research interest among computer scientists, as evidenced by a signifi- 
cant number of research publications on related topics. A similar development can 
be observed in the area of learning as well: Techniques primarily developed in the 
classical theory of learning are being applied to understand the generalization and 
learning characteristics of neural networks. In [1, 2] attempts have been made to in- 
tegrate concepts from different areas and present a unified treatment of the various 
results on the complexity of neural computation and learning. In fact, contributions 
from several participants in the workshop are included in [2], and interested readers 
conhi find detailed discussions of many of the results presented at tile workshop in 
Following is a brief description of the presentations, along with tile names and e- 
mail addresses of the speakers. W. Maass (maa.s',s'(iligi. lu-gr'az. ac. at) and A. Sakurai 
(sakurai@har'lgw92. ha'l. hitachi. co.jp) made presentations on the VC-dimension and 
the computational power offeedforward neural networks. Many neural nets of depth 
3 (or larger) with linear threshoht gates have a VC-dilnension that is superlinear in 
the number of weights of the net. The talks presented new reslilts which establish 
1161 
1162 Roychowdhury and Siu 
effective lipper bounds and almost, tight lower bounds on the VC-dimension of 
feedforward networks with various activation functions inchiding linear threshold 
and sigmoidal functions. Such nonlinear lower bonnds on the VC-dimension were 
also discussed for networks with both integer and real weights. A presentation 
by G. Turin ( @ VM. CC. P URD UE. ED U: Ul1557@ UIC VM) discussed new results on 
proving lower bounds on the size of circuits for compnting specific Boolean functions 
where each gate computes a real-valued fimction. In particular the results provide 
a lower bound for the size of formulas (i.e., circuits with fan-out 1) of polynomial 
gates, computing Boolean filnctions in the sense of sign-representation. 
The presentations on learning addressed both sample and algorithmic complexity. 
The talk by V. Castelli (vittor'io@isl. stanford. cdu) and T. Cover studied the role of 
labeled and unlabeled samples in pattern recognition. Let samples be chosen from 
two populations whose distributions are known, and let the proportion (mixing pa- 
rameter) of the two classes be unknown. Assume that a training set composed of 
independent observations from the two classes is given, where part of the samples 
are classified and part are not. The talk presented new results which investigate the 
relative value of the labeled and nnlabeled samples in reducing the probability of 
error of the classifier. In particular, it was shown that under the above hypotheses 
the relative vahle of labeled and unlabeled samples is proportional to the (Fisher) 
Information they carry about the nnknown mixing parameter. B. Dasgnpta (das- 
gupta@cs. umn. cdu), on the other hand, addressed the issue of the tractability of 
the training problem of nenral networks. New results showing that the training 
problem remains NP-complete when the activation functions are piecewise linear 
were presented. 
The talk by B. Hassibi (hassibi¾ascals.stanJrd. cdn) provided a minimax interpre- 
tation of instantaneous-gradient-based learning algorithms snch as LMS and back- 
propagation. When the underlying model is linear, it was shown that the LMS 
algorithm minimizes the worst case ratio of predicted error energy to distnrbance 
energy. When the model is nonlinear, which arises in the context of neural networks, 
it was shown that the backpropagation algorithm performs this minimization in a 
local sense. These results provide theoretical justification for the widely observed 
excellent robustness properties of the LMS and backpropagatiolt algorithms. 
The last talk by R. Carliana (car'uana@GS79.,_qP. CS. CMU. EDU) presented a set 
of interesting empirical results on the learning properties of neural networks of 
different sizes. Some of the issues (based on empiricaJ evidence) raised during 
the talk are: 1) If cross-validation is nsed to prevent overtraining, excess capacity 
rarely reduces the generalization performance of fully connected feed-forward back- 
propagation networks. 2) Moreover, too little capacity usually hurts generalization 
performance more than too mtlch capacity. 
References 
[1] K.-Y. Sill, V. P. Roychowdhury, and T. Kailath. Discr'ctc Nctr'al Computation: 
A Theoretical Foundation. Englewood Cliffs, N J: Prentice-Hall, 1994. 
[2] V. P. Roychowdhury, K.-Y. Sill, and A. Orlitsky, editors. Theor':tical Advances 
in Neural Computation and L:ar'uing. Boston: Khlwer Aca, delnic Publishers, 
1994. 
